Histologic chorioamnionitis is a reliable indicator of infection whether or not it is clinically apparent.
Vitamin C reduces the prevalence of complex regional pain syndrome after wrist fractures. A daily dose of 500 mg for fifty days is recommended.
The interval from the onset of clinical symptoms to the initial surgical intervention seems to be the most important prognostic factor with a significant impact on outcome. Despite extensive therapeutic efforts, Fournier's gangrene remains a surgical emergency and early recognition with prompt radical debridement is the mainstays of management.
The preliminary results of this study suggest that this approach may be helpful as an independent tumor staging factor. It is also worth noting that part of the staging process could also be based on features describing the immune cells in the peripheral blood.
Pancreas retransplantation is a safe procedure with acceptable graft survival that should be proposed to diabetic patients who have lost their primary graft.
Women had better survival than men; however, there was no survival advantage in propensity-matched gender pairs. A gender difference in survival was observed only in the adenocarcinoma subset, suggesting pathobiology in adenocarcinoma in women might be different from that of men.
HIV/STD control measures appear to have slowed the HIV/AIDS epidemic in Jamaica, however a significant minority of persons continue to have unprotected sex in high risk situations.
Poststapedectomy-delayed facial palsy is likely caused by a reactivation of HSV-1, latent within the geniculate ganglion. The activation of the latent virus is more frequent in patients with a history of herpes labialis and can be prevented by an adequate acyclovir therapy.
External radiotherapy seems to be a safe and effective method of palliative management of gallbladder carcinoma. However, further studies are necessary to determine the role of radiotherapy in palliative or adjuvant treatment of gallbladder carcinoma.
Our results indicate that elevated cTnI levels are associated with higher risk for inhospital mortality and complicated clinical course. Troponin I may play an important role for the risk assessment of patients with PE. The idea that an elevation in cTnI levels is a valuable parameter for the risk stratification of patients with PE needs to be examined in larger prospective studies.
Closed reduction is an easy and sufficient treatment for nasal fractures, especially for mild nasal fractures. Early intervention raises the patient satisfaction rate.
Many children underestimated their degree of overweight. Their parents and even their attending physicians shared this misperception. This study demonstrates the need to further educate physicians to recognize obesity and overweight so that they can counsel children and their families.
This study presents a different clinical picture of oral mucoceles/ranulas, as observed in HIV-positive patients. Additionally, it suggests a possible clinical link between the two pathologies. The authors strongly support the suggestion that oral mucocele/ranula is an HIV-related salivary gland disease.
Half-dose MR angiography using diluted contrast medium injected at a rate of 1 mL/second depicted the abdominal aorta and its branches as clearly as using a full single dose.
Bedtime NPH insulin added to maximal therapy with sulfonylurea and metformin is an effective, simple, well-tolerated approach for patients with uncontrolled type 2 diabetes.
With monitoring of MEP and SSEP, sacrifice--without reimplantation--of as many as 15 intercostal and lumbar arteries during TAA/A repair is safe, resulting in acceptably low rates of immediate and delayed paraplegia. This experience suggests that routine surgical implantation of segmental vessels is not indicated, and that, with evolving understanding of spinal cord perfusion, endovascular repair of the entire thoracic aorta should ultimately be possible without spinal cord injury.
Transgastric endoscopic splenectomy in a porcine model appears technically feasible. Additional long-term survival experiments are planned.
Malnutrition is prevalent in hemodialysis patients and is associated with arterial calcification and the expressions of BMP2 and MGP in calcified radial arteries. Malnutrition may be a new inducer candidate for arterial calcification in hemodialysis patients.
In this small study serum inhibin concentrations higher than those found in the early follicular phase one to two weeks after evacuation of a hydatidiform mole seemed to be specific for persistent trophoblastic disease. Further data are needed to confirm these promising results.
High doses of ZNS are effective and safe in pharmacoresistant epileptic patients. Therapeutic drug monitoring of ZNS may be considered at therapeutic failure.
Although most Medicare beneficiaries who received a new CIED between 2005 and 2009 did not have an initial in-person CIED follow-up visit within 2 to 12 weeks after device implantation, the rate of initial follow-up improved appreciably over time. This CIED follow-up visit was significantly more common in white patients than in patients of other races.
Patient coaching offers promise as a means of reducing racial/ethnic disparities in pain control. Larger studies are needed to validate these findings and to explore possible mechanisms.
Our findings demonstrate that the PHQ-9, when scaled with Rasch analysis, forms a linear interval measurement of depressive symptoms suitable for use in a vision impaired population.
Lower Infundibular height could be a good measurement tool for deciding which patients with lower calyceal lithiasis would benefit from SWL treatment. Height of less than 22 mm suggests a good outcome from lithotripsy.
Liquid-based preparations performed significantly better in urinary cytology challenges when evaluating malignant categories in the College of American Pathologists interlaboratory comparison program. The liquid-based preparation challenges also performed better for the exact reference interpretation of HGUCA, but no difference was observed for adenocarcinoma challenges. Cytotechnologists perform better than pathologists for all slide types, as well as those demonstrating HGUCA. These results suggest that liquid-based preparations facilitate a more accurate diagnosis than conventional preparations.
Systolic BP measured by the nurse in treated hypertensive patients is significantly lower than the readings obtained by the physician, and are almost identical to ambulatory BP monitoring. Blood pressure determination by the nurse is desirable not only for diagnosis but also to evaluate the level of control of blood pressure during the follow-up of treated hypertensive patients.
DBE appears to be equally safe and effective when performed in the community setting as compared to a tertiary referral center with a comparable yield, efficacy, and complication rate.
Local excision of T1 and T2 buccal mucosa cancers with pathologically negative margins had a high rate of local recurrence in our series. Low T-stage and negative margins are not adequate predictors of local control. Even early buccal tumors may benefit from adjuvant therapy to enhance local control.
Many patients do not understand their ED care or their discharge instructions. Moreover, most patients appear to be unaware of their lack of understanding and report inappropriate confidence in their comprehension and recall.
In light of the large sample size and prior pilot testing of presented images, results suggest that episodic migraineurs do not differentially attend to headache-related facial stimuli. Given modest evidence of attentional biases among chronic headache samples, these findings suggest potential differences in attentional processing between chronic and episodic headache subforms.
Effective undergraduate surgical education can be offered in many specialty settings. Removal of the requirement for general surgery in clerkship may lead to a more effective use of all educational opportunities. A careful analysis of local programs and facilities is necessary before suggesting this change to other institutions.
Therefore, we conclude that the attendance of pre-clinical GEM students at live lectures is not significantly impacted upon by the provision of lecture VODcasts, with most students viewing them as useful revision tools rather than as a replacement for live lectures.
The data demonstrate that vaccination has a relatively weak and short-lasting effect in old age. The results of the study should stimulate discussions about strategies how vaccinations can be made more effective in old age. Improved campaigns, shortened vaccination intervals as well as the design of novel vaccines tailored to fulfill the specific demands of the aging immune system are imaginable.
From this study we conclude that there is no increase in testicular atrophy in patients less than 13 months.
In our study, we suggest that glomerular hyperfiltration due to pregnancy does not have adverse effects on kidney in women with more parities. Pregnancy may have possible protective mechanisms for kidney against adverse effects of glomerular hyperfiltration.
Our results suggested that s.c. anti-TNF pharmacokinetics do not significantly influence US-scored synovitis in RA patients.
While more than a quarter of the middle-aged adult population said they were interested in PAS insurance, actual participation would be highly dependent on premium rates. The current lack of publicly subsidized insurance for long-term care and personal assistance services remains a serious gap in the disability service system.
There was little evidence that people at high risk of falls received systematic falls risk assessment during rehabilitation. When a risk was identified, generally a strategy was implemented. However, failure to assess some risk factors might have limited fall prevention strategies offered. Failure to adequately address risks during hospitalization could contribute to falls post-discharge. Geriatr Gerontol Int 2016; 16: 570-576.
Percutaneous ethanol injection without aspiration of ethanol-mixed fluid seems to be the preferable method of treatment of benign cystic thyroid nodules from the perspective of both the physician and the patient.
In this group of subjects, juvenile AS had onset more often with oligoarthritis and enthesitis than with spinal disease. Hip and knee joint involvement was more common in JAS than AAS.
There was no evidence of a trend in unsafe sex behaviour over time. However, several subgroups were identified as being more likely to report unsafe sex and should be targeted for specific interventions.
Delayed diagnosis of an ARM appears to be common, occurring in approximately 32% of patients referred to our institution over the last 2.5 years. Current guidelines appear insufficient to ensure prompt diagnosis of ARM.
Exclusive CRT approach is not safe to treat patients with low infiltrative rectal carcinoma.
In this study, we found no systematic association between isolated episodes of binge drinking during early pregnancy and child motor function at age 5.
Among adults aged 20 to 34 years with private dental insurance, fluoridation reduces oral disease but may or may not reduce use of restorative services, depending on dentists' clinical decisions.
No technical problems associated with INR testing within primary care were uncovered. Discrepant INR results are as problematic in hospital settings as they are in primary care. These data highlight the failings of the INR to standardise when different techniques and reagents are used, an issue which needs to be resolved. For primary care to become more involved in therapeutic oral anticoagulation monitoring, close links are needed between hospital laboratories and practices, particularly with regard to training and quality assurance.
Although elevated leukocyte count and CRP value cannot effectively establish the diagnosis of acute appendicitis in the elderly, unelevated values exclude it. Accordingly, appendectomy is not recommended to be performed in an elderly patient with unelevated leukocyte count and CRP value, although clinical symptoms and signs indicate acute appendicitis.
LF and cruroplasty is feasible and has good results in terms of GERD symptoms control and additional weight loss. The high rate of postoperative complications observed in this series remains a matter of concern. A re-sleeve procedure might be considered as an alternative to RYGB/DS conversion restricted to selected patients.
Effective CPAP treatment in IPF patients with OSA results in a significant improvement in daily living activities based on the FOSQ, namely an OSA-specific follow-up instrument. Improvement was also noted in other questionnaires assessing quality of life, though not to a statistically significant degree, probably because of the multifactorial influences of IPF on physical and mental health. The probability of poor CPAP compliance was high and could only be eliminated with intense follow-up by the CPAP clinic staff.
Emotional prosody, therefore, seems to be partially processed outside the focus of spatial attention. Whereas at early sensory processing stages spatial attention modulates the degree of emotional voice processing as a function of emotional valence, emotional prosody is processed outside of the focus of spatial attention at later processing stages.
It is concluded from the study that this knowledge if applied to dead human subjects, may preserve dead bodies temporarily allowing delayed funeral.
Pediatricians should be alert to the earliest manifestations of AEA. Awareness of choking games among the young and, of those, a subset who eventually progress to potentially fatal AEA is strongly encouraged among all primary care professionals who may be able to interrupt the behavior.
HIE was associated with reduced repeat imaging in EDs. This study is among the first to find empirical support for this anticipated benefit of HIE.
A history of PIPE may be a risk factor for the development of IPE. Yet, the disappearance of significance on multivariate analysis indicates that it is not an independent predictor.
N-acetylcysteine may cause severe otorrhea in the healing process of tympanic membrane perforations. Further studies including histopathological examinations are required to elucidate this condition.
The general practice selection process is predictive of future performance in the MRCGP.
These results indicate that prophylactic treatment with edaravone prevents I/R-induced ovarian damage during pneumoperitoneum in an experimental rat model.
The present study, which is based on internationally accepted assessment tools for SLE patients, shows a significant relationship between increased disease activity and reduced physical function. This result emphasizes the importance of optimizing treatment aiming at reducing disease activity.
Alcohol drinking during meals was inversely related with risk of acute MI, whereas alcohol drinking outside meals only was unrelated to risk.
After 4 weeks' acid-suppressive therapy for LA grade C or D oesophagitis, successful healing appears to reach a threshold above which improvements are unlikely to be achieved despite an increase in number of hours with intragastric pH>4.
Sonographic needle guidance significantly improves the performance and outcomes of outpatient IA injections in a clinically significant manner.
Head and neck-specific QOL measures are necessary and should include domains that reflect ES, SC, and AP.
GFRUPs procedure was applicable in most cases. The main difficulties were anticipating the correct date for the meeting and involving nurses in the procedure. Children for whom the procedure was interrupted because of clinical improvement and who survived in poor condition without a formal decision pointed out the need for medical criteria for questioning, which should systematically lead to a formal decision-making process.
Despite a lower risk of breast cancer, the Sami attended the NBCSP more frequently than the control group. The recall and cancer detection rate was lower among the Sami compared with the non-Sami group.
Among U.S. adults with chronic disease-related functional limitations, the overall increase in CAM use from 2002 to 2007 was significant, particularly among those with changing and maintaining body position limitations.
Educational level influences contact with specialist care among patients with gynecological cancer alarm symptoms. Future studies should investigate inequalities in access to the secondary healthcare system.
This study suggests that some of the less severe pediatric type II SCHFs can be successfully treated without surgery if close follow-up is achieved. Fractures with initial rotational deformity, coronal malalignment, and significant extension of the distal fragment are likely to fail a nonoperative approach. An algorithm using the initial radiographic characteristics can aid in distinguishing groups.
This hypothesis-generator study shows that IgM-eIVIG is an effective adjuvant therapy in VLBW infants with proven sepsis. Randomized controlled trials are warranted to confirm this pilot observation.
This large multicenter database analysis suggests that the presence of severe and moderate and even mild preoperative anemia is an independent risk factor for complications and a longer hospital stay after colon surgery.
Our findings suggest routine BS of patients presenting with MBC is not required if CT (thorax, abdomen, and pelvis) is performed.
In this paper the effect of lunar phases on the time of delivery is shown. This influence seems to be especially relevant in the case of multiparae and plurigravidae. Nevertheless, it is too weak to allow for prediction regarding the days with the highest frequency of deliveries.
We found DT to be a comparable imaging modality to NCCT for the detection of intrarenal stones, without a significant effect from stone size and BMI and adequate reproducibility between multiple readers. DT appears to be an ideal alternative for following patients with nephrolithiasis due to its acceptable stone detection rates, low radiation exposure, and decreased cost compared to NCCT.
These findings suggest that schizophrenia is associated with progressive structural brain abnormalities, affecting both gray and white matter. We found no evidence to suggest progressive medial temporal lobe involvement but did find evidence that this may be partly explained by heterogeneity between studies in patient age and illness duration. The causes and clinical correlates of these progressive brain changes should now be the focus of investigation.
Gadofosveset-enhanced MR angiography is a promising technique for imaging carotid artery stenosis. Steady-state image reading is superior to first-pass image reading, but the combined reading protocol is more accurate.
Our findings support CIMT as a significant indicator of both cardiovascular risk and phenotype among adult black Africans. However, specific thresholds need to be defined based on prospective studies.
Laparoscopic procedures caused detectable damage to Kupffer and endothelial cells as reflected by elevation of post-operative HA serum levels. The damage to the liver hepatocytes and perisinusoidal cells has no clinical significance and the laparoscopic procedure itself is the probable cause of the Kupffer and endothelial cells damage, while other mechanisms caused damage to the hepatocytes.
When there is clinical suspicion of sepsis, appropriate empirical systemic antibiotic therapy should be broad spectrum and should rely on the susceptibility of the organisms from recent cultures of the burn wound surface, until the blood cultures results are completed.
Roux-en-Y gastric bypass is a promising option for lifelong treatment of type 2 diabetes. It has the potential to improve or cure a selected spectrum of type 1 diabetes when performed early in the disease. Further animal model studies or randomized controlled trials are needed to support our conclusion.
• Initial experience with RARC did not affect the incidence of positive surgical margins, operative/postoperative complications, or overall survival in a single-institution series.
There is no indication of a rebound aggravation of symptoms 12 to 14 days after a 5-day treatment with lansoprazole 60 mg once daily in patients with reflux symptoms.
Our results showed that the serum leptin level has no prognostic indications in advanced lung cancer patients. Leptin is decreased in lung cancer, and there is lack of correlation with tumour‑related factors including prognosis. Therefore, leptin is not a useful clinical marker in lung cancer (Tab. 2, Fig. 2, Ref. 22).
We did not find a lower prevalence of high EPDS scores among women randomized to regular exercise during pregnancy compared with the control group. However, a subgroup of women in the intervention group who did not exercise regularly prior to pregnancy had a reduced risk of postnatal depression.
In this cohort, prospectively ascertained prenatal exposure to cigarettes and childhood exposure to violence are associated with self-reported delinquent behaviors during early adolescence. Contrary to initial popular predictions, intrauterine cocaine is not a strong predictor of adolescent delinquent behaviors in this cohort.
Elderly patients with MSCC did not benefit from surgery in addition to radiotherapy regarding functional outcome, local control of MSCC, or survival.
In patients with advanced dilated and ischemic cardiomyopathy and severe functional MR, MV replacement is associated with higher in-hospital and late mortality compared with MV repair. Therefore, mitral repair should be preferred whenever possible in this clinical setting.
In comparison with its accuracy in non-DM patients, the accuracy of PET in cervical cancer patients with mild to moderate DM was not significantly reduced.
DGE after PPPD seems to be of minor clinical importance following uncomplicated surgery. When taking the results into consideration, it can be said that, despite the lack of a control group, antecolic duodenojejunostomy might be the key to a low incidence of DGE after PPPD. In our experience, DGE is linked to the occurrence of other postoperative complications rather than to pylorus preservation.
HCA was not found to be a predictor of subsequent cognitive decline in this series.
Skewed X-inactivation is not associated with recurrent spontaneous abortion but is associated with increasing maternal age.
The second-look laparotomy doesn't have a favorable impact on overall and disease-free survival. Tumor grade is the only independent prognostic variable for survival of the patients.
Time to primary treatment after a diagnosis of breast cancer had no impact on overall survival. Further studies on care before diagnosis are important in drawing up meaningful quality indicators.
Using 4 validated asthma control questionnaires, we failed to find an association between obesity and asthma control in an urban population with asthma. Weight loss may not be an appropriate strategy to improve asthma control in this population.
Continence function remained undisturbed after anastomotic leakage due to rectal resection
Both hsCRP levels and the carotid IMT were strongly correlated with conventional cardiovascular risk factors, but there was no independent association between hsCRP levels and carotid IMT in healthy Korean adults.
Trauma patients have a significant complication rate related to anticoagulation therapy, and predicting which patients will develop a complication remains unclear. Prospective studies are needed to determine which treatment regimen, if any, is appropriate to safely anticoagulate this high risk population.
Using solid culture, 150 cultures need to be tested for one treatment modification and 30 for DST. The cost of the widespread application of culture will need to be balanced against its impact on treatment decisions in India.
Our results suggest that people do not attach a simple fixed premium to "safety-related" interventions but that preferences depend more subtly on context. The use of the results of such public preference surveys to directly inform policy would therefore be premature.
In a multiethnic population, cutaneous melanoma in nonwhite persons is unusual but not rare. Although the diagnoses are distinctly different at initial examinations, suggesting a potential biological component, stage-for-stage outcomes are similar between white and nonwhite persons and suggest a need for early diagnostic interventions with unusual pigmented lesions in nonwhite persons.
In breast cancer patients having SLN biopsy, the failure of routine intraoperative FS is largely the failure to detect micrometastatic disease. The benefit of routine intraoperative FS increases with tumor size. Routine FS may not be indicated in patients with the smallest invasive cancers.
Our data suggest that very few genes, which change their expression level during the WOI, show a quantitative homogeneous expression in endometrially-receptive patients. In conclusion, in this study only six genes showed a homogeneous expression, and are probably involved in embryo implantation mechanisms.
Self-reported mechanical factors associated with chronic oro-facial pain are confounded, in part, by psychological factors and are equally common across other frequently unexplained syndromes. They may represent another feature of somatisation. Therefore the use of extensive invasive therapy such as occlusal adjustments and surgery to change mechanical factors may not be justified in many cases.
Severe hypoglycaemia is associated with an increased risk for CV outcomes in people at high CV risk and dysglycaemia. Although allocation to insulin glargine vs. standard care was associated with an increased risk of severe and non-severe hypoglycaemia, the relative risk of CV outcomes with hypoglycaemia was lower with insulin glargine-based glucose-lowering therapy than with the standard glycaemic control. Trial Registration (ORIGIN ClinicalTrials.gov number NCT00069784).
Slowing the infusion rate of metoclopramide is an effective strategy for the improvement of headache and reducing the incidence of akathisia in patients with vascular type headache.
In this population, neither BMI nor neck circumference nor waist circumference is predictive of autoCPAP pressure. Therefore, the previously derived algorithm does not adequately predict the fixed CPAP pressure for subsequent clinical use in these obese individuals. In addition, some subjects without OSA generated high autoCPAP pressures, and thus, the correlation between OSA severity and autoCPAP pressure was only moderate.
Results suggest that telmisartan may reduce type-I diabetes mellitus-induced hepatic injury by suppressing activated hepatic stellate cells through concomitant TGF-beta1 down-regulation.
It is concluded that preloading colloid fluid prior to repositioning could prevent the decrease of systolic blood pressure and central venous pressure during sitting positioning without other complications.
We have shown that eosinophilic inflammation of the airway wall may increase PD and that the association of eosinophil counts with ICSs may result in lessening the PD.
These findings provide evidence that a high cumulative dose of regular insulin is a risk factor for atherosclerosis.
The current study revealed an increase in health care services utilization from 2001 to 2009 in the older Spanish population.
Based on data derived from self-reported health conditions, and not withstanding the limitations of such a study, we conclude that there is good evidence to suggest that individuals with moderate to severe periodontal disease are at higher risk of suffering from rheumatoid arthritis and vice versa.
While not providing conclusive evidence, this single institution experience suggests that neoadjuvant chemotherapy for Stage IV NPC patients improves both survival and disease control. Recurrence within the irradiated volume was the most prevalent mode of failure and future studies will evaluate regimens to enhance local regional control.
Given the available screening technologies, discordant TEOAE and AABR may be inevitable for some categories of hearing loss among apparently healthy newborns whose mothers received prenatal care. The potential limitations of perinatal morbidities as basis of targeted screening for such cases therefore merit further consideration.
Human pWAT has chemotactic properties through the secretion of different chemokines, and we propose that pWAT might contribute to the progression of obesity-associated atherosclerosis.
A reduced alveolar macrophage phagocytic host response to apoptotic cells or NTHi may contribute to neutrophilic inflammation and NTHi colonization in both PBB and bronchiectasis. Whether this mechanism also contributes to the progression of PBB to bronchiectasis remains unknown.
Generalization of the RCT sample was supported, because only 7.8% of Phenomenology subjects did not fit the RCT criteria. Nevertheless, because the RCT subjects were more severely ill, it is unclear if treatment findings from the RCT will be applicable to children with less severe mania.
The effects of the intervention were most pronounced after the first intervention. Compared to usual care, telephone counseling seemed particularly effective at promoting change among nonadherent women, the group for whom the intervention was developed. These results suggest that telephone counseling, rather than tailored print, might be the preferred first-line intervention for getting nonadherent women on schedule for mammography screening. Many questions would have to be answered about why the tailored print intervention was not more powerful. Nevertheless, it is clear that additional interventions will be needed to maintain women's adherence to mammography. Medical Subject Headings (MeSH): mammography screening, telephone counseling, tailored print communications, barriers.
Ketamine sedation was successful and well tolerated in all cases. The use of atropine as an adjunct for intramuscular ketamine sedation in children significantly reduces hypersalivation and may lower the incidence of post-procedural vomiting. Atropine is associated with a higher incidence of a transient rash. No serious adverse events were noted.
Since the MPV value was significantly decreased in patients with PID, it may serve as an additional and even more valuable marker than leukocyte count in the diagnosis of PID.
These data suggest that the increased levels of AGEs in blood, and probably in tissues, reported in uremia implicate a broad derangement in non-enzymatic biochemistry involving alterations in autoxidation of both carbohydrates and lipids.
A task-specific intervention designed to improve gait speed may potentially provide secondary benefits by positively impacting depression, mobility and social participation for people post stroke.
Comparisons of absolute EOA values grouped by the manufacturers' valve sizes are misleading because of specific differences in geometric dimensions. The EOA:patient aortic annulus area ratio provides a new hemodynamic index which may facilitate objective comparisons between different valve types.
In the present study we found a significant increase in the incidence of GBS colonization in pregnant women in northern Israel. We also found an increased rate of GBS carriers in Arab women relative to Jewish women.
The study data suggests a possible correlation between cervical discopathy and cervical MS plaque.
Adverse drug reactions were confronted with other already published case reports. Dopamine partial agonist mechanism of aripiprazole could explain the occurrence of pathological gambling.
These preliminary data support our hypothesis that recipient inflammation may affect RBC alloimmunization in humans; however, a more detailed understanding of the pathophysiologic association between inflammation and alloimmunization is required before definitive conclusions can be reached.
Our data suggest that hearing loss caused by GM otic drops may be reduced by the inclusion of BM and benzalkonium chloride. Our finding that BM alone was associated with hearing loss suggests that the benzalkonium chloride may be the protective agent in combination otic drops.
General practitioners should consider using patients' first names more often, particularly with younger patients.
A woman's model of care, such as birth center care, during her first pregnancy does not seem to be a sufficiently important factor to affect subsequent reproduction in Sweden.
In our cohort, selective screening of patients aged>70 years, with carotid bruit, a history of cerebrovascular disease, diabetes mellitus or PVD would have reduced the screening load by 40%, with trivial impact on surgical management or neurological outcomes.
A policy of early cesarean delivery in eclampsia, carrying ≥34 weeks, is not associated with better outcomes.
Clinical predictors appear inadequate for the evaluation of the cervical spine in geriatric trauma patients with low-energy mechanism.
Parity is not directly linked to insulin sensitivity deterioration, to CP/FPG increase during pregnancy, or to GDM appearance, although it is linked through the mediation of progressive ageing and weight gain either before or during pregnancy, when there is a sufficiently long time interval between pregnancies.
An additional delayed phase through the abdomen in routine contrast-enhanced CT examinations of the abdomen and pelvis is of low yield, particularly if reliable follow-up imaging to further elucidate uncertain findings is available.
Under the conditions of this study, pulpotomy offered a viable alternative to root canal treatment for teeth with vital pulps in the short term. However, there is insufficient clinical evidence to consider this technique for the treatment of every permanent tooth. Nevertheless, it should be considered as a potential alternative approach to be further developed for future applications.
There are no statistically apparent motion differences between SUP-CTV and INF-CTV. Current uniform planning target volume (PTV) margins are adequate to cover both portions of the CTV.
For this pathology, the number of needles, 5 or 11, seems not to be an important variable in determining the therapeutic effect when the time of stimulation is the same in the two groups.
The integration of whole-lesion dynamic data tends to improve specificity. However, no statistical significance backs up this finding.
None of the clinical identifiers for early-stage adhesive capsulitis previously proposed by expert consensus have been validated in this study. Clinicians should be aware that commonly used clinical identifiers may not be applicable to this stage.
The menopausal transition warrants attention as a period of vulnerability to MDD recurrence, while health factors and VMS should be considered important risk factors for first lifetime-onset of MDD during midlife.
These results suggest little need to use peak concentration in vancomycin TDM because Cmin/MIC and Cmin are sufficient to predict the efficacy and safety of vancomycin.
Comparison of mother-offspring and father-offspring associations for BMI suggests that intergenerational acceleration mechanisms do not make an important contribution to levels of childhood BMI within the population. Associations at later ages and for different components of body composition now require study.
Most patients with localized prostate cancer prefer the lower radiation dose. Our findings indicate that many patients attach more weight to specific quality-of-life aspects (eg, GI toxicity) than to improving survival. Treatment preferences of patients with localized prostate cancer can and should be involved in radiotherapy decision making.
There is no advantage to an intramedullary nail versus a sliding compression hip screw for low-energy pertrochanteric fractures AO/OTA 31-A1 and A2, specifically with its increased cost and lack of evidence to show decreased complications or improved patient outcome.
Nontriploid partial moles probably do not exist: careful reevaluation of putative specimens will probably uncover pathologic or ploid errors in almost all cases.
The results of this study indicate that leisure time sports participation is associated with levels of NSC, but not with availability of parks or sports facilities. In addition, NSC and availability of parks in the zip code area interacted in such a way that leisure time sports participation is most likely among adolescents living in zip code areas with higher levels of NSC, and higher availability of parks. Hence, availability of parks appears only to be important for leisure time sports participation when NSC is high.
Young hypermetropic adults possessed +1 to +2 D of latent hypermetropia. In contrast, young myopic adults revealed pseudomyopia of -0.5 D. Cycloplegic refraction should be performed in young hypermetropic adults complaining of various signs of asthenopia.
The low presence of HPV DNA in pterygia does not support the hypothesis that HPV is involved in the development of pterygia in Denmark.
These data suggest that limb-salvage surgery offers better gait efficiency and return to normal living compared with above-knee amputation, but does not improve the patient's perception of quality of life.
The diagnosis of BD in patients with MDE depends strongly on the method and criteria employed. The considerable difference between criteria-free physician's diagnosis and the remaining algorithms indicate the usefulness of criteria lists within the everyday clinical setting.
A positive Hawkins sign rules out that the fractured talus has developed avascular necrosis, but its absence does not confirm it.
Chronic spinal cord injuries patients with lower limb fractures who are treated surgically achieved a more reliable consolidation, practically a free range of motion, low rate of cutaneous complications, and pain associated with the fracture. This allows a quick return to the previous standard of living, and should be considered as an alternative to orthopaedic treatment in these patients.
The frequency of habits of Chaalia and Pan Masala chewing, by school children in lower socio-economic areas is extremely high. The probable reasons for this high frequency are taste, the widespread use of these substances by family members and friends, low cost and easy availability.
A possible decreased transformation of procarcinogens by CYP2D6*4 poor metabolisers could result in a protective effect against carcinogens.
This illustrates that Paget's disease does exist in India and a high index of suspicion is required to clinch the diagnosis.
The results of this study suggest that the cardiovascular response to exercise training may be different in men and women. Women may benefit more from interventions aimed to increase physical activity as a tool for prevention of cardiovascular morbidity and mortality.
The findings showed that acupuncture of voice-related acupoints could bring about improvement in vocal function and healing of vocal fold lesions.
While socio-economic gradients in health exist among all ethnic groups, they are relatively shallow among Pacific and (especially) Asian peoples. For these ethnic groups, caution should be exercised in applying deprivation or other socio-economic measures as proxy indicators of need for health services.
This group of elderly stroke patients were able to record their BPs reliably at home. Any bias was small and would be unlikely to affect management. Since BP readings in a GP surgery are often a poor indication of true BP, GPs might consider using hypertensive patients' records of home BP monitoring to help guide treatment decisions.
Patients on AIs who develop osteoporosis are at increased risk of musculoskeletal symptoms and bone fracture. Comedication with Ca/Bis reduces the likelihood for osteoporosis and musculoskeletal symptoms. Patients who received tamoxifen before AIs were less likely to develop AI-related musculoskeletal symptoms. We recommend that patients on AIs should be offered Ca/Bis to reduce the incidence of musculoskeletal symptoms and fracture, especially if patients are receiving steroidal AI and/or did not receive tamoxifen before AIs.
Urbanicity was associated with increases in behavioral and physiological risk factors. However, these associations may not translate directly into increases in biological risk factors. It is likely that these biological risk factors were results of a complex interaction between both long term accumulation of exposure and early life exposures.
When controlling for preoperative features, the year in which RP was performed is a predictor of outcome on multivariate analysis. This effect could not be explained by stage migration.
Greater anterior laxity of the uninjured knee was associated with poorer stability and functional outcomes after ACL reconstruction. Excessive anterior laxity of the uninjured knee thus appears to represent a risk factor for inferior outcomes.
The researchers studied a defined skin care protocol using a cleanser with aloe vera and a cleansing lotion, followed by application of either a moisture barrier with silicone or skin protectant with zinc oxide and menthol, undertaken at two different frequencies. Data revealed the incidence of moderate IAD was decreased in the experimental group (receiving the skin protocol every 6 hours and p.r.n.).
Affect-regulated exercise to feel 'good' can be used in a training programme to regulate exercise intensity. This approach led to a 19% increase in time to reach ventilatory threshold, which is indicative of improved fitness.
3D ultrasound validation of the postfiring needle position is an efficient adjunct to ultrasound-guided LCNB. The advantages of 3D ultrasound validation are likely to include a reduction in the number of core samples needed to achieve a reliable histological diagnosis (and a possible reduction in the risk of tumor cell displacement), reduced procedure time and lower costs.
Septal suturing after septoplasty offers the following advantages: elimination of discomfort for the patients, minimal complications, the outcome is almost the same as with nasal packing, and finally the hospital stay is less than with nasal packing. Therefore, suturing of the nasal septum after septoplasty should be a preferred alternative to nasal packing.
Biochemical analysis of injured cervical intervertebral disks reveals the presence of inflammatory markers such as MCP, fragments of structural matrix proteins such as FAC, and a correlation with pH. Further evaluation of the FAC as a potential diagnostic biomarker or therapeutic target is warranted in the cervical spine.
Our study proposes an easily interpretable classification method for the differentiation between HCM and increased left ventricular myocardial thickness due to ATTR amyloidosis. Our combined echocardiographic and ECG model could increase the ability to identify ATTR cardiac amyloidosis in clinical practice.
Patients with BRAF-mutant PTC had a significantly longer PFS than BRAF wild-type when treated with TKIs. However, due to the small number of BRAF-mutant patients, further investigations are required, especially to understand the potential positive effect of BRAF mutations in RAIR TC patients while having a negative prognostic impact in RAI-sensitive PTC patients.
Taken together, these results suggest a potential role for AMPK on the secretion of melatonin probably acting trough the paraventricular nucleus and/or directly in the pineal gland. We conclude that AMPK may act as a metabolic cue to modulate the rhythm of melatonin secretion.
Parental restriction of R-rated movie viewing is associated with both lower adolescent smoking susceptibility and lower smoking rates.
When cerebral hemispherectomy is performed to control seizures associated with very early (in utero) insult, it has been found that the remaining right hemisphere is still able to support reading and phonological processing skills that are normally mediated by the left hemisphere. Our results also suggest the existence of variability in individuals after hemispherectomy, even within groups having the same etiology and similar timing of insult.
It seems quite admissible and justified to encourage medical students to officiate as examiners in undergraduate emergency medicine OSCE formative testing, but not necessarily in summative assessment evaluations.
Speed discrimination, per se, is not impaired in schizophrenia patients. The observed abnormality appears to be a consequence of impairment in generating or integrating the feedback information from eye movements. This study introduces a novel approach to motion perception studies and highlights the importance of concurrently measuring eye movements to understand interactions between these two systems; the results argue for a conceptual revision regarding motion perception abnormality in schizophrenia.
The majority of acetabular components in this cohort were stable despite the small contact surface achieved between the component and pelvic bone. Three of 10 migrated in excess of the limits that predict later loosening in primary THA but it remains to be seen whether these limits apply to this selected group of frail osteoporotic patients. We continue to use this technique routinely to treat patients with the same indications, but since the analysis of these data we have added screw fixation of the acetabular component to the ischial tuberosity and the superior pubic ramus.
The prevalence of vagino-rectal colonization by Streptococcus group B in the pregnant women from Melilla is within the national estimated figures, however it is different if they are from Muslim or Christian culture, being higher in the Muslim population. On one hand both prevalences are within the national statistics, and on the other hand it is observed that there is not any difference according to age.
Weekend hospitalization leads to delayed provision of intensive procedures and elevated 1-year mortality for elderly AMI patients. The existence of measurable differences in treatments raises questions regarding the efficacy of a single input regulation (e.g., mandated nurse staffing ratios) in enhancing the quality of weekend care. My results suggest that targeted financial incentives might be a more cost-effective policy response than broad regulation aimed at improving quality.
These findings suggest a malleable relationship between knee extensor strength, dynamic stability, and disease severity in PD. Although strength is only one piece of the puzzle in the functional outcome of PD, these findings may assist clinicians in designing appropriate interventions aimed at increasing function and decreasing fall risk in PD.
There is a knowledge deficit regarding the SU treatment goal among gout patients receiving ULT, despite generally high levels of other gout-specific knowledge. SU goal information may be an important and underutilized concept among providers treating gout patients.
Despite advances in early diagnosis and surgical technique, 5-year survival of stage I non-small cell lung carcinoma remains low as compared to survival of other solid organ neoplasm. Tumour size<or=3cm, adenocarcinoma histologic type and negative bronchial resection margins were associated with a more favourable outcome in our patient population. More effective multimodality treatments are needed to increase survival rates.
In our study, it was observed that although longer ETA was associated with longer hospitalization, ETA was not correlated with postoperative complications. Our results inclined toward the position that appendectomy can be performed as a semielective surgery.
Mean %EBWL after LSG was not significantly different among three groups of patients divided according to resected stomach volume. Resected stomach volume was significantly greater in patients with higher preoperative body mass index.
Our study emphasised the discomfort of transurethral urinary catheters, especially in male patients, and the high incidence of urinary tract infections in both sexes. Consideration should be given to the utilisation of alternative methods of bladder drainage, such as suprapubic catheterisation, which can be performed with ease during laparotomy.
Neither insertion of PEG tubes nor timing of insertion affect survival.
According to our study, there is a great variability when different brands and models of scanners are compared directly. Furthermore, the CT scan analysis and HU evaluation appears to gather insufficient information in order to characterize and identify the composition of renal stones.
The results show that fatigue in patients with pSS and sSS is not due to the coexistence of FM in most cases. A lower incidence in the United Kingdom of FM in patients with pSS was found than has been previously reported.
We found that all of the studied dimensions of restricted fetal growth are independently associated with increased risks of low intellectual performance and that these associations are only partly mediated by socioeconomic or familial factors.
Simple detorsion was not accompanied by an increase in morbidity, and all patients studied had functioning ovarian tissue on follow-up despite the surgeon's assessment of the degree of ovarian ischemia. Detorsion is the procedure of choice for most cases of ovarian torsion in children.
Laparoscopic myomectomy can be performed by experienced surgeons regardless of the size, number, or location of the myomas.
Although BD is correlated with GCS at presentation and RTS, it is not a reliable prognostic marker for outcome and mortality in patients with isolated TBI.
Many factors contribute to the erroneous reporting of hCG results, including (a) the complexity of hCG molecule and confusion of nomenclature on the various forms of hCG; (b) laboratory personnel's lack of awareness of the distinctions of the forms of hCG and failure to recognize the specificity of assays for their measurement; (c) lack of clarity and uniformity in manufacturers' reagent labeling; and (d) most product inserts' lack of information on the specificity of each method to the various forms of hCG.
The results of this study cast doubt on the importance of LOC as a predictor of neuropsychological test performance during the acute phase of recovery from mild traumatic brain injury. Neuropsychological testing procedures have been shown to be sensitive in measuring cognitive sequelae of mild traumatic brain injury (concussion) in athletes. The failure of this study to find any relationship between LOC and neuropsychological functioning in a large sample of patients with mild head trauma calls into question the assignment of primary importance to LOC in grading severity of concussion. This study also does not provide support for the use of guidelines that rely heavily on LOC in making return-to-play decisions. Continued research is necessary to determine the relative importance of markers of concussion in athletes.
Increased D-dimer levels should not be considered as a diagnostic parameter in diagnosis of acute appendicitis.
Compared with patients without hypothyroidism, patients with treated hypothyroidism are not at any increased risk for perinatal morbidity.
Progression of a pT3 tumour into the renal vein and vena cava is not associated with increased tumour expression of VEGF. However, VEGF is an independent prognostic factor in this group of poor prognosis renal tumours.
Experts across Europe asserted the right to culturally sensitive health care for all immigrants. There is a broad consensus among experts about the major principles of good practice that need to be implemented across Europe. However, there also is some disagreement both within and between countries on specific issues that require further research and debate.
: Prophylactic fixation with a cephalomedullary nail was not found to be cost-effective for the average older woman who sustained a hip fracture. However, it may be appropriate for select patient populations. The study supports the need for basic science and clinical trials investigating the effectiveness of prophylactic fixation for patient populations at higher lifetime risk for contralateral hip fracture.
Eliciting a tibial motor response predicts a higher success rate than eliciting a peroneal motor response with parasacral sciatic nerve block.
The Ambu SIB was able to accurately deliver targeted pressures across all three models from preterm to infant. The Neopuff infant resuscitator was unable to deliver the targeted pressures in the infant model developing clinically significant levels of inadvertent PEEP which may pose risk during infant resuscitation.
Although the provision of high-quality evidence-based resources, electronic or otherwise, is essential for standardizing care and improving patient outcomes, the authors' findings demonstrate that this alone does not ensure uptake. It is important to understand end-users, the environment in which they operate, and the basic infrastructure required to implement such a system. Implementation must also be accompanied by continuing education and endorsement to ensure both long-term sustainability and use of the system to its full potential.
Emergency US fellowship programs had a positive impact on residents' US educational experiences. Emergency medicine residents performed more scans overall and also used bedside US for more advanced applications in programs with EUS fellowships.
Center differences in enteral feeding advancement occur and may have a significant impact on short-term outcomes such as nosocomial sepsis. Large, multicenter, prospective trials are required to further elucidate the optimal feeding strategy for VLBW infants.
This paper discusses the cultural appropriateness of the RAQ in Australian settings, and identifies the need to develop rigorous, inclusive recovery outcome measures.
The prevalence of cognitive impairment in MND in this population based study of an unselected cohort was higher than has been previously reported. Language deficits, especially anomia, may be relatively frequent in the MND population. Aphasia in MND may be masked by dysarthria and missed if not specifically examined.
We conclude that 3-phase bone scintigraphy prior to surgery could be a useful method to determine the amputation level in a diabetic foot. We conclude that further, comparative, more comprehensive, long-term, and controlled studies are required.
Expression of ER is a constitutional feature of the connective tissue and smooth muscle cells of the anal continence organ. Estrogen receptors and PR are not detectable in the striated muscle fibers of the external anal sphincter in either sex. The presence of ER in the stroma and smooth muscles of the anal canal suggests that these tissues are targets for estrogen. This constitutes a theoretical basis for the beneficial effects of estrogen and progestin replacement on anal continence in postmenopausal women.
Biased estimates of asthma severity may contribute to racially disparate asthma care. Interventions to improve physicians' assessments of asthma severity and patient-physician communication may minimize racial disparities in asthma care.
The fMRI paradigm mental imagery displays a high concordance with the further clinical course of patients in a VS. All 5 patients in a VS who showed significant activation of ROIs had a favorable further course until the end of the observation period. We therefore propose the term "functional minimally conscious state" for these patients. They may benefit from rehabilitation treatment. In cases where no significant activation was seen, the method has no prognostic value. Prediction of the clinical course of patients in an MCS by fMRI was considerably less accurate than in patients in a VS.
Pre-eclampsia is a potential risk factor for cochlear damage and sensorineural hearing loss. Further studies that include routine audiological examinations are needed in these patients.
In situ lung IR has a marked negative impact on coronary blood flow, hemodynamics, and inflammatory profile. In addition, to the best of our knowledge, this is the first study where coronary blood flow is directly measured during lung IR, revealing the associated increased cardiac risk.
Patients diagnosed with schizophrenia or bipolar disorder (ie, SMI) were more likely than other patients to be admitted to nursing homes with higher deficiency citations for both overall quality and clinical care quality. Further research is necessary to understand the reasons behind the disparity in quality of nursing home care associated with SMI.
Potentially curative therapy results in significantly improved LE and QALE for older men with few comorbidities and moderately or poorly differentiated localized prostate cancer. Age should not be a barrier to treatment in this group.
General surgery research residents' intraoperative leadership skills showed significant correlations to their perceptions of skill decay and task difficulty during a bowel repair. Evaluating resident's directional instructions may provide an additional individualized intraoperative assessment metric. Further evaluation relating to operative performance outcomes is warranted.
Although planning and operating a multidisciplinary clinic is not a new venture, to the best of the authors' knowledge, they have provided the first report demonstrating the benefits described above.
The observed socioeconomic, demographic and microbiological differences between unmarried and married women could be responsible for the poor pregnancy outcome among unmarried pregnant women in Poland. Unmarried pregnant women should be covered by comprehensive medical care even before pregnancy. Further studies taking into account the role of psychological stress, patterns of sexual behavior and substance abuse during pregnancy could help identify the factors responsible for adverse pregnancy outcome among unmarried pregnant women.
In conclusion, concept mapping has a positive effect on students' academic achievement. These findings could provide valuable evidence for establishing concept mapping as a continuous teaching strategy for nursing students.
While limited by its retrospective design, the present study indicates that the minilaparoscopic approach to groin hernia repair is safe and effective, making miniTAPP a challenging alternative to laparoscopy in the approach to groin hernia repair.
Transvaginal Doppler examination can detect hemodynamic changes in uteroplacental circulation associated with subsequent adverse pregnancy outcome.
Findings suggest that traffic law reforms in order to have an effect on both traffic fatality and injury rates reduction require changes in police enforcement practices. Last, this case also illustrates how the diffusion of successful road safety practices globally promoted by WHO and World Bank can be an important influence for enhancing national road safety practices.
Even in capped health care systems, virtual planning and guided surgery including prebent or milled plates are financially viable.
Elective re-siting of intravenous cannulae every 48 hours results in a significant reduction in the incidence and severity of PVT. We recommend that this should be adopted as standard practice in managing all patients who require prolonged intravenous therapy.
Primary eosinophilic esophagitis is characterized by fragile esophageal mucosa that readily tears in response to minor trauma during otherwise uneventful diagnostic endoscopy. This "crêpe-paper" sign may alert endoscopists to the presence of the disease when other mucosal alterations are lacking. Dilation is effective for patients with symptoms with minimal morbidity, despite development of disquieting lesions in response to the procedure.
Early treatment and use of triptans may lead to shorter duration from migraine headache onset to its peak but did not alleviate headache severity at peak. This could result in decreased migraine burden by reducing total migraine headache duration.
Our study indicated that preoperative statin therapy seems to reduce AF development after CABG.
Improved office-based practices regarding influenza vaccination could significantly impact Healthy People 2020 goals by increasing influenza vaccine uptake and reducing corresponding racial and ethnic disparities.
Results for low back pain are consistent with the theory of hypertension-associated hypalgesia, predicting diminished pain sensitivity with increasing blood pressure, possibly with modified reactions in people suffering from long-lasting pain.
In patients with limb-threatening ischemia and lack of venous material for a straightforward venous femorocrural bypass, semi-closed endarterectomy of the superficial femoral artery combined with a short popliteo-crural bypass provides a good alternative.
In summary we believe sudden onset chest wall rigidity may be a significant and previously unreported factor leading to an increased mortality, from illicit IV fentanyl use. Fentanyl and norfentanyl ratios and concentrations suggest a more rapid onset of death given the finding of fentanyl without norfentanyl in many of the fatalities. Chest wall rigidity may help explain the cause of death in these instances, in contrast to the typical opioid-related overdose deaths. Intravenous heroin users should be educated regarding this potentially fatal complication given the increasingly common substitution and combination with heroin of fentanyl.
Patients with severe pain immediately after vertebroplasty have similar long-term outcomes compared with patients without severe pain.
Nebulized heparin cannot be recommended for prophylaxis against VAP or to hasten recovery from pneumonia in patients receiving MV.
Compared with PM, DM affects more thigh muscles, except those of the posterior compartment, which are equally involved in both disorders. These findings may be useful to target physiotherapy at the more frequently affected muscles.
There appears to be no benefit in metformin co-treatment before and during IVF in women with PCO without any other features of PCOS. Clinical Trials.gov: NCT01046032.
PPM after AVR does not affect survival, functional status, and QoL in patients aged at least 75 years. Surgical procedures, often time-consuming, contemplated to prevent PPM, may therefore be not justified in this patient subgroup.
In this nationally representative population-based survey, HCMV seropositivity is associated with hypertension in women in the NHANES population. This association is largely explained by the association of hypertension with age and the increase in past exposure to HCMV with age.
Although the estimated effective dose is low for VCUG radiographic scout images, this step did not augment VCUG interpretation or contribute management-changing information. This step should be omitted or substituted to further reduce dose in pediatric VCUG.
This study found that there was poor agreement between the AD's decision and the subsequent MR's decision regarding the fitness of those seafarers who decided to appeal against the AD's initial assessment. The reasons for this are considered.
This study has shown that being SGA was not a significant risk factor for any stage ROP or for severe ROP in this cohort and, also, that the risk factors for ROP were similar among SGA and AGA very-low-birth-weight preterm babies.
The statistical power of this case-referent study was such that only large beneficial effects of statins in acute stroke could be confirmed. However, the observed trend, together with experimental observations, is interesting enough to warrant a more detailed analysis of the relationship between statins and stroke outcome.
The ANN with its intrinsic ability to detect non-linear correlation, and to relate specific item patterns to LOS, outperformed linear statistics but was still disappointing in estimating individual LOS. It might be speculated that therapeutic intervention modulates the natural course of the disease thus counteracting both disease severity as initially scored by PRISM, and LOS. This being true, the inverse of the correlation between PRISM (or PRISM based LOS estimate) and LOS might be a candidate indicator of quality of care.
These data indicate that determination of coronary anatomy may not impact on survival in patients undergoing emergency surgery of the aorta and support the concept that once diagnosed, patients should proceed as quickly as possible to surgery.
The socio-economic gradient in active travel seems independent of physical environmental characteristics. Whilst more affluent populations enjoy advantages on some health outcomes, they will still benefit from increasing their levels of physical activity through active travel. Benefits of active travel to the whole community would include reduced vehicle emissions, reduced carbon consumption, the preservation or enhancement of infrastructure and the presentation of a 'normalised' behaviour.
No evidence was found for OPLL to have any effect on the initial neurologic status or recovery in motor function after traumatic cervical cord injury, suggesting that the neurologic outcome is not significantly dependent on canal space.
Normothermic normokalemic simultaneous antegrade/retrograde perfusion did not improve, but slightly impaired myocardial oxygenation and energy metabolism of beating hypertrophied hearts relative to NNAP. Therefore, NNSP for protection of beating hypertrophied hearts during valve surgery should be used with extra caution.
Unless improvements are made in case ascertainment, case validation and recording activities, the evidence suggests that the CHCS will not be able to provide the same quality of information for needs assessment and surveillance of very low birthweight infants in relation to cerebral palsy as is provided by a specialist case register.
Development of tolerance to gluten seems possible in some patients with CD. Further follow-up will show whether this tolerance is permanent or only a long-term return to latency. This feature may be associated with genetic characteristics, especially with HLA genotypes that differ from DQ2 or DQ8. More insight into the mechanisms of the development of gluten tolerance may help to distinguish those CD patients that might not require life-long GFD.
The majority of EMS professionals thought that they should participate in disease and injury prevention programs. The respondents were mixed as to whether prevention services should be provided while on emergency calls, but those with experience providing these services were more likely to agree with providing them during emergency calls.
Although initial infection control rate was substantially lower in the retention group than the removal group, final results were comparable at latest followup. We believe retention treatment can be selectively considered for non-S. aureus infection, and when applied in selected patients, polyethylene exchange should be performed.
The results of this study do not support the hypothesis that there is a direct link between atmospheric pressure values and abdominal aortic aneurysm ruptures.
We found that 1.6% of S. aureus (all MSSA) from bacteraemic patients were PVL-positive. This low incidence suggests that PVL-positive S. aureus are of no particular significance as causative agents of S. aureus bacteraemia.
Vaccines were exposed to temperatures that may reduce their potency. Safe storage of vaccines in the clinics cannot be ensured without adhering to the recommended guidelines. Provision of adequate equipment and training for staff in maintaining the "cold chain" and the use and care of equipment are important components of a successful immunisation programme.
Both 'economic/employment' and 'social/welfare' dimensions of social exclusion significantly influence suicide mortality among males. The influence of 'economic/employment' and 'social/welfare' dimensions of social exclusion on female suicide mortality is controversial. Social exclusion might be considered as a risk factor for suicide mortality in Europe.
Memory provocation increased the sensitivity of rCBF-SPECT for the detection of AD-related blood flow changes in the brain at the group level. Further studies are needed to evaluate MP-SPECT as a diagnostic tool at the individual level. If a higher sensitivity for AD at the individual level is verified in future studies, a single MP-SPECT study might be sufficient in the clinical setting.
These results suggest that endothelin-1 should play a role in aggravating the development of acute hemorrhagic pancreatitis, through its action on the pancreatic microcirculation.
Those patients with trilobar prostate morphology are more likely to achieve a greater decrease in the PVR urine volume after holmium laser enucleation of the prostate. All other outcomes appeared to be similar between the 2 groups. In addition, a 2-lobe technique can be safely used for trilobar prostates when deemed feasible by the surgeon.
The use of the modified lithotomy position during pelvic surgery is not associated with lower limb ischemia. Addition of Trendelenburg position, however, causes profound ischemia of the lower limbs, and this is followed during the recovery period by hyperperfusion that is confined to the muscle compartments, which may put patients at risk of developing lower limb compartment syndrome.
Our results suggest that 99mTc-WBC is useful as an initial screening modality to exclude IBD, and is more sensitive than UGI-SBFT studies.
According to ICM-DNA values corresponding to the S + G2/M region, patients with breast cancers classified as Auer IV can be divided into subgroups with different tumor characteristics and prognoses.
Ultrasound and histopathology identify a substantial population that may be candidates for lobectomy, avoiding the risks and potential medical and psychosocial morbidity associated with total thyroidectomy. We propose a clinical framework to stimulate discussion of lobectomy as an option for low-risk patients.
Cue-induced behavioural activation was specific to alcohol cues, reproducible, persistent and could be blocked by naltrexone, and its correlation with human self-report of craving makes it a potentially useful model for studying alcohol craving.
Our findings suggest that, in HT+ postmenopausal women, the rs2813544 polymorphism may influence LDL-C levels and, as previously described, ESR2 rs1256049 is associated with T-chol and LDL-C. No previous study has investigated the association of this SNP set with lipoprotein levels in women while taking into account the hormonal status of the patients.
Better prognosis was obtained when ruptured aneurysm was repaired in the elderly than it was treated conservatively. From the results of this study, we should not hesitate to offer the definitive surgery for the elderly with aSAH.
Position emission tomography scanning appears to accurately change the stage or appropriately alter the therapy of almost a third of patients with advanced primary rectal cancer. In view of this, we suggest that position emission tomography scanning be considered part of standard workup for such patients, particularly if neoadjuvant chemoradiation is being considered as part of primary management.
Transrectal ultrasound guided and fusion biopsy cancer detection rates decreased with increasing prostate volume. However, magnetic resonance-ultrasound fusion biopsy had a higher prostate cancer detection rate compared to that of transrectal ultrasound guided biopsy in the literature. Magnetic resonance-ultrasound fusion biopsy represents a promising solution for patients with suspicion of prostate cancer and an enlarged prostate.
The cost-effectiveness of DMOADs for OA prevention for persons at high risk for incident OA may be comparable to other accepted preventive therapies.
Patients who previously received radiotherapy for primary rectal cancer treatment have worse oncologic outcomes than those who had not received radiotherapy after pelvic exenteration for locally recurrent rectal cancer.
The addition of epinephrine to ACLS-SAPO increases vital organ perfusion pressures and improves outcome from cardiac arrest. There appears to be a profound loss of arterial vasomotor tone after prolonged arrest. This loss of vasomotor tone may make exogenous pressors necessary for resuscitation after prolonged cardiac arrest.
Vitamin D supplementation was associated with significantly increased %Tregs in apparently healthy individuals. This immunomodulatory effect of vitamin D might underlie the associations of vitamin D deficiency and autoimmune diseases. Hence, our finding provides a rationale for further studies to investigate vitamin D effects on autoimmunological processes.
Transactive memory theory extends to high-stress environments in which members' expertise is highly overlapping. Teammates' shared mental models about one another increase the likelihood that they will request and accept backup.
Older adults enrolled in PICT with more symptoms may sacrifice QOL for experimental treatment.
Laparoscopic antireflux surgery significantly improved quality of life in reflux patients whose symptoms were well controlled on medical therapy. Although on the basis of a noncomparative trial with a relatively short follow-up period, we believe such patients should be considered for laparoscopic antireflux surgery.
Change of maternal creatine status (increased creatine synthesis and reduced creatine excretion) may be a necessary adjustment of maternal physiology to pregnancy to meet the metabolic demands of maternal tissues, the placenta and developing fetus.
Data from Safe Implementation of Treatments in Stroke-International Stroke Thrombolysis Register suggest that intravenous thrombolysis may modify the observed survival and recovery advantage for men expected in the natural course of an ischemic stroke, with a possible larger beneficial treatment effect in women when compared with men.
The results suggest that a longer duration of treatment may prevent return into mental health care in some groups. However, because of the design of the study, no causal inference can be drawn. Further research, preferably in a RCT, is needed to determine whether the trend towards lower intensity treatments is associated with repeated mental health care use.
epiDWI has the potential to differentiate pleomorphic adenoma and myoepithelial adenomas from all other examined entities. Due to an overlap not only within the group of benign and malignant lesions but also between groups, diagnoses should not be addressed on the basis of ADC values solely. Therefore, further studies combining DWI, morphologic criteria, and probably other MR imaging techniques seem warranted.
The gaps in patella eversion demonstrated smaller gaps both in knee extension and flexion position compared to the gaps of patella reduction position. The amount of decreased gaps was more definite in knee flexion position. Therefore, the intraoperative patellar positioning has influence on the measurement of the joint gap. Keeping the patella in reduced position is important during gap balancing.
In patients undergoing 3-column osteotomies for severe spinal deformities, the DAR was predictive of patients developing intraoperative motor evoked potential alerts. Identifying accurate radiographical, patient, and procedural risk factors in the correction of severe deformities can help prepare the surgical team to improve safety and outcomes when carrying out complex spinal corrections.
The quilting suture seems to be an efficient technique with which to prevent seroma formation.
It is concluded that ACE-DD genotype may be a risk factor for the causation and development of chronic kidney failure among hypertensive patients.
Ongoing RCTs may lack enough power to settle the issue of whether or not the transfusion of stored blood has a negative clinical impact. A precautionary reduction of the maximum storage time to 35 days is advisable.
Vaginal pH should be measured by bringing the pH strip in direct contact with fresh vaginal fluid without first adding saline.
The overall yield of SL for HCC was 7 %, and the accuracy was 27 %. When accurate imaging methods are available and additional percutaneous liver biopsy is implemented as a standard procedure in the preoperative workup of patients with HCC, the benefit of SL will become even less.
Early oral intake is possible after laparotomy and colorectal resection. Thus, the laparoscopic surgeon's claim of early tolerated oral intake may not be unique to laparoscopy.
Adherence to follow-up was low in this family planning clinic population, no matter what type of follow-up was advised. Adherence was improved by the use of up to 3 reminders. Allocating resources to effective methods for improving adherence to follow-up of abnormal results may be more important than which follow-up procedure is recommended.
Most students do not encounter all 10 conditions during patient encounters throughout a 4-week EM rotation, although most have exposure to at least eight. Certain conditions are far less likely than others to be encountered, and may need to be taught in a nonclinical setting.
Small bowel atresia is frequently associated with postoperative cholestasis that will resolve with time. We recommend a more selective and expectant approach to SBA-associated cholestasis to minimize unnecessary investigations.
Image manipulations which alter the diagnostic content of a radiograph are unlikely to be detected by dentists. Digital radiography requires additional measures for data protection.
No home-prepared replacement milks in South Africa meet all estimated micronutrient and essential fatty acid requirements of infants aged<6 months. Commercial infant formula is the only replacement milk that meets all nutritional needs. Revisions of WHO/UNAIDS/UNICEF HIV and infant feeding course replacement milk options are needed. If replacement milks are to provide total nutrition, preparations should include vegetable oils, such as soybean oil, as a source of linoleic and alpha-linolenic acids, and additional vitamins and minerals.
The advice to perform a concomitant splenectomy in children with mild HS undergoing cholecystectomy for symptomatic gallstones needs revisiting. In the era of minimal access surgery, the need for splenectomy in such children should be judged on its own merits.
Our results suggest that colonoscopy does not affect the management of patients with acute diverticulitis nor alter the outcome. The current practice of a routine colonoscopy after acute diverticulitis, diagnosed by typical clinical symptoms and CT needs to be reevaluated.
p53 alteration detected by IHC or SSCP analysis is not a clinically useful predictor of local response to pre-operative adjuvant therapy in advanced rectal carcinoma.
The practice of intensive observation for the first transfusion in pediatric patients is probably unnecessary.
The prevalence of PAD is high in nursing home residents. AAI is not predictive for IHD mortality in this population. In very frail elderly traditional risk factors and PAD are less important predictors of death compared to poor functional status, nutritional factors and previous cardiovascular disease.
Improving access to FV in the household and food shopping environments will only make a small contribution to improving population consumption levels, and may only have a limited effect in reducing socioeconomic inequalities in their consumption.
Our investigation did not undoubtedly prove that significant changes of fetal biometric parameters occurred in the last three decades. It is possible that secular growth acceleration does not exist in prenatal period but also the observed time period could have been short for this phenomenon to manifest.
In this 'at-risk' group with skin microvascular dysfunction maximal oxygen uptake was not reduced compared with healthy controls. However, in the 'at-risk' group alone, individuals with higher levels of aerobic fitness also had better microvascular and endothelial responsiveness.
The Young-Burgess system is useful for predicting transfusion requirements. For the system to predict mortality or nonorthopaedic injuries, fractures must be divided into stable (APC1, LC1) and unstable (APC2, APC3, LC2, LC3, VS, combined mechanism of injury) types. LC1 injuries are very common and not always benign (overall mortality rate, 8.2%).
Just over half the patients in this present cohort may be physically able to undertake some aspects of self-managed foot care, including nail clipping and filing, callus filing and daily hygiene and inspection.
The results suggest that NA treatment can be stopped in selected patients with CHB as long as they are not cirrhotic, have completed a minimum period of treatment, have normal ALT and sustained undetectable DNA. These patients should be closely monitored during the first year and then indefinitely.
Mesocolon invasion should be included in T4 for the staging of gastric cancer.
Clinical assessment is the key to diagnose appendicitis. Nevertheless, in girls older than 10 years, selected use of imaging should be implemented to avoid unnecessary appendectomies. Imaging of choice in equivocal cases should be ultrasonography.
This preliminary study demonstrated that OSCE ratings by LEs and REs were reasonably comparable when using checklists. Remote examination may be a feasible and acceptable way of assessing students' clinical skills, but further validity evidence will be required before it can be recommended for use in high-stakes examinations.
Neuromedin U reduces insulin and increases somatostatin secretion. Blockade of somatostatin action abolishes the inhibition of insulin secretion by NmU. The results of the study suggest that somatostatin mediates the inhibitory action of NmU on insulin secretion.
Mucosal redundancy is a constant associated finding in IHPS. Although the origin of the redundancy and a cause-and-effect relationship are difficult to establish, our findings support the hypothesis that hypergastrinemia may be implicated in the pathogenesis of IHPS, and suggest that mucosal thickening could be implicated as one of the initiating factors in its development.
These data suggest that being willing and fit enough for a chemotherapy protocol is a good prognostic factor for invasive bladder cancer. This eligibility bias emphasizes the need for prospective, randomized trials, and indicates that single-group studies using historical or matched controls have to be interpreted with caution.
Patients after ART treatment suffer from higher C-section rates during their stage of delivery.
Over 14 years, a higher BMI predicts knee pain at Y15 in women, independently of radiographic knee OA. When adjusted, the association was significant in bilateral, not unilateral, knee pain, suggesting alternative pathologic mechanisms may exist. The longitudinal effect of BMI on knee pain at Y15 is equally important at any time point, which may assist reducing the population burden of knee pain.
Acute hepatitis C in the post universal blood products screening era was found to be predominantly an iatrogenic disease in the investigated localities. This finding should direct attention and resources towards the development and implementation of preventive measures.
Ophthalmic pathology and basic science research show that SBK and ASA are improvements in excimer laser keratorefractive surgery compared to conventional LASIK or PRK, particularly with regard to maintaining corneal biomechanics and perhaps moderately reducing the risk of corneal haze. However, most of the disadvantages caused by wound healing issues remain.
The results indicate that clinicians can use a combination of simple, reliable and time efficient foot measures to explain 79% and 85% of the plantar surface area in the forefoot and midfoot, respectively.
Analyzing the prevalence of 11 chronic conditions by using Medicare claims data provides a monitoring tool that can guide health care providers and policy makers in devising strategies to address chronic conditions and rising health care costs.
Findings suggest that cluster analyses may be useful in identifying groups for targeted health messages.
Although outcomes for EPSCC remains poor, both surgery and radiation is shown to significantly improve median, 5- and 10-year survival rates. EPSCC patients who are potential candidates for surgical resection or radiation therapy may benefit from these treatments.
It appears possible that aging skeletal muscles subjected to continuous exercise develop an adaptive response that counteracts the selective loss of type II muscle fibers usually observed in the muscles of elderly sedentary subjects. Our results suggest that physical activity could be considered in the elderly within a broad rehabilitative framework in which appropriate and even tailored physical training could be planned to counteract the physiologic effects of aging on muscle fiber distribution.
Regarding the pedigree, we discuss different modes of inheritance. The presence of consanguineous unions in this family suggests the possibility of a common ancestor and thus a recessive autosomal mode of inheritance.
The elevated risk of death after CABG surgery known previously to be associated with CDM seems also to be shared by a group of similar size that includes patients with IFG and undiagnosed DM.
Premature births from rural mothers have a higher risk of stillbirth and mortality in neonatal intensive care than urban infants.
Day case laparoscopic cholecystectomy is safe, feasible, and cost-effective when patients are carefully selected. It provides good patient satisfaction.
A UNP can be trained to perform cystoscopy and detect suspicious lesions as accurately as can a consultant urologist. Legal and training issues in implementation are important.
Current surgical techniques of tibial preparation may result in partial or total PCL damage. Tibial tuberosity is a useful anatomical landmark to locate the PCL footprint and to predict the probability of its detachment pre-, intra-, and postoperatively. This knowledge might be useful to predict and avoid instability, consecutive pain, and dissatisfaction after TKA related to PCL insufficiency.
Conveyance of emotions or movements through music may be decoded differently by persons with different types of communication disorders. Because music is the primary therapeutic tool in music therapy sessions, clinicians should consider these differential abilities when selecting music for clinical interventions focusing on emotions or movement.
Body dysmorphic disorder may have a closely related psychotic subtype that significantly overlaps with, or may even be the same disorder as, the BDD variant of delusional disorder, somatic type. Inclusion of a psychotic subtype for BDD should be considered for future editions of DSM.
QTcD is significantly increased in hypertensive patients with LVH compared with those without, being strongly correlated with the indices of LVH. A QTcD cut-off value of 60 ms predicted LVH in hypertensive patients with a high sensitivity and specificity.
HIV prevention programs for youth should recognize that substance use may be an important indicator of risk for HIV infection and acquired immunodeficiency syndrome through its association with unsafe sexual behaviors.
We found that intrapartum VAS was an effective predictor of fetal acidosis in cases of FHR variable decelerations, but its predictability for fetal acidosis in cases of FHR late decelerations was limited. Both VAS and fetal blood pH are good predictors of neonatal morbidity.
The results of the current study demonstrated that there are factors that increase the risk of a leakage which would enable surgeons to define risk groups, to more carefully select patients, and to offer a closer follow-up during the postoperative course with early recognition and adequate treatment. All future efforts should be focused on a further reduction of serious complications to make the LSG a widely accepted and safer procedure.
Because workers may have an elevated relative aerobic workload for several hours each working day, this relationship may elucidate a mechanism behind the increased risk for cardiovascular disease among workers exposed to high levels of occupational physical activity.
Family physicians provide sensitive, timely, and accurate community influenza morbidity data that complement data from other surveillance systems. This information enables monitoring of the type, timing, and intensity of influenza activity and can help health care workers implement prevention or control measures.
Aspiration thrombectomy before primary PCI is not associated with any benefit on clinical end points and might increase the risk of stroke. Concomitant administration of intravenous glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors and ischemic time did not seem to influence any potential benefits observed with aspiration thrombectomy.
Paediatric SF medicines were not more erosive than SC medicines in vitro; a more significant predictor of their erosive potential was dose form.
We found no evidence to support the use of AG routinely in IBS patients. Improvement of clinical response at 4-week follow-up may suggest a long-term effect of unknown mechanism, but could also be attributed to non-responder drop out. Gastrointestinal (GI) side effects may be a coincidence in this study, but irritation of GI tract by AG administration cannot be excluded.
This study showed that FDG is not a good surrogate tracer for tumor hypoxia under either ambient or hypoxic conditions. Only specific hypoxia tracers should be used to measure tumor hypoxia.
Pretreatment ECG is of limited value for patients with an unremarkable cardiovascular history and a normal heart rate and blood pressure. Hypotension may occur during treatment.
Mothers' BMI highly correlate with children's BMI-z-scores. The degree of child's obesity increases mothers' concern and food restriction behavior. While mothers of obese children have a high prevalence of obesity, maternal obesity was found to have no significant influence on feeding behavior of obese school children.
The data obtained did not allow for the creation of a proper and practical algorithm to predict stone chemical composition based on hair and urine analysis.
Pre- and post-menopausal polyps exhibit differing hormone receptor and proliferation markers, presumably a result of their hormonal milieu. However, both groups appear to have lost the usual control mechanisms for apoptotic regulation, this appears to be responsible for their growth.
Not all the patients undergoing TKA who receive tranexamic acid need the same preoperative Hb optimization target. Two easily available factors, such as the ASA score and the Hb level, can help individualize the Hb optimization target.
Samples withdrawn from heparinized arterial lines cannot be relied upon for APTT ratio results.
Postcontrast synovial SIs showed high correlation between half dose and full dose, and image quality was rated identically. Therefore, half-dose gadobenate dimeglumine at 3-T MR imaging may be sufficient for assessing synovitis or tenosynovitis in early RA.
The morbidity associated with desmoid tumors has not been shown to differ, whether they arise after restorative proctocolectomy or ileorectal anastomosis.
The results showed no overall first night effect on severity of RMMA frequency in young and healthy patients with SB. In clinical practice, one-night sleep recording may be sufficient for moderate-high frequency SB patients. However, low RMMA frequency in the first night could be confirmed by a second night based on the patient's medical and dental history.
A well developed collateral circulation does not predict an increased risk of restenosis after PCI.
Despite the positive effects the 80-hour workweek has had on resident quality of life and patient care, it does not seem that either significant improvements or detrimental effects have occurred on surgical education within residency programs in New England.
In COS-IUI for unexplained non-conception, induction of more than one follicle did not improve the ongoing PR, but increased the risk of multiple pregnancies. Multiple PR remained high in the first four cycles with multifollicular stimulation. Therefore, in order to reduce the number of multiple pregnancies, in all IUI cycles for unexplained non-conception monofollicular growth should be aimed at.
Patients with chronic functional somatic symptoms have a great diversity of functional somatic symptoms. They use more somatic and psychotropic drugs than controls in the years before diagnosis. Moreover, they show high rates of referrals and psychiatric morbidity. The diversity of symptoms of patients with chronic functional somatic symptoms supports the concept that symptoms do not cluster in well defined distinct syndromes. Therefore, patients with chronic functional somatic symptoms should preferably not be classified into medical subspecialty syndromes.
The patient has been restarted on IV APD therapy. This case has led us to consider whether bisphosphonate therapy can be discontinued in a child with fragility fractures before his/her linear growth has ceased?
These preliminary results suggest the feasibility of multicatheter APBI after oncoplastic breast-conserving surgery in selected low-risk breast cancer patients; however, special attention to target volume definition is needed. Further prospective investigations with long follow-up are needed to define the real value of the procedure.
Physicians who opt to treat UTI in postmenopausal women empirically should consider prescribing drugs other than fluoroquinolones. Concomitant longitudinal surveillance of both antibiotic utilization patterns and uropathogen resistance rates should become routine practice in this managed-care organization.
Although the association of prostate and lung cancer is uncommon, the possibility of synchronous tumors should be considered in patients with urinary and pulmonary symptoms suggestive of neoplasm. It is important to determine if the lesion is a metastasis, since the prognosis depends on the second tumor.
Overall, 7% of women in our cohort met either clinical or molecular criteria for Lynch syndrome. All of these women had a prior history or a first-degree relative with an HNPCC-associated cancer. Limiting genetic evaluation to women with synchronous endometrial and ovarian cancer who have a family history suggestive of HNPCC may appropriately identify women with Lynch syndrome.
Preoperative chemoradiation is mandatory in male patients with a threatened or affected anterior circumferential margin on preoperative MRI. In patients with preoperative prostatic infiltration, prostatic resection is necessary. In this group of patients partial prostatectomy seems to be oncologically safe.
A fetal anatomic survey on follow-up sonograms may identify unanticipated fetal anomalies, especially when the indication is for fetal growth.
The study supports the hypothesis that nurses' aides who were exposed to ETS at home during childhood have an increased risk of long-term sickness absence.
The current literature suggests that dexamethasone can be used as an effective alternative to prednisone in the treatment of mild to moderate acute asthma exacerbations in children, with the added benefits of improved compliance, palatability, and cost. However, more research is needed to examine the role of dexamethasone in hospitalized children.
Delay of surgery in immature AIS patients whose Cobb's angle exceed 40° initially and showing subsequent progression of the curve, of more than 10° can lead to alterations in the curve pattern and the need for increase in fusion levels.
We conclude that GES is more effective in improving long-term GI symptoms and costs, and decreasing use of healthcare resources than intensive medical therapy, in this sample of patients with the symptoms of GP followed for 3 years. Certain patients with GP form a high-risk group in terms of costs, quality of life, morbidity and mortality.
The presence of a high signal intensity change on T2-weighted MRI and the pyramidal tract sign can be used as prognostic factors for patients with CSA.
MRI of children with OCD consistently showed secondary physis disruption, overlying chondroepiphysial widening, and subchondral bone edema. We suggest that disruption of normal endochondral ossification may be associated with juvenile OCD.
Laparoscopic cholecystectomy is often challenging in men on account of more adhesions and inflammation. This leads to higher conversion rates and more postoperative complications. Optimized planning and a more experienced operating surgeon may help overcome these problems.
The recently released seventh edition of the primary tumor staging system for kidney tumors is a powerful predictor of CSS. However, some of the substages identified by the classification have overlapping prognoses, and other substages include patients with heterogeneous outcomes. The few modifications included in this edition may have not resolved the most critical issues in the previous version.
The PRP group recorded reduced pain, swelling, and trismus as well as enhanced and faster bone healing compared with those in the control. Hence the study showed that topical application of PRP gel has a beneficial effect in enhancing socket healing after third molar surgery.
These observations lead to conclude that the APT with HDM is positive also in non-AD subjects but it is probably more specific for AD.
Having a regular primary care clinician is embraced in pediatrics, although team care among physicians is also widely practiced. For young children, having a regular clinician is associated with modest gains in interpersonal quality and no differences in content of anticipatory guidance. The benefit of having a regular clinician may primarily occur in interpersonal quality for subgroups of young children.
An increased trend was detected in men who had no history of food poisoning or travel to endemic areas. This increase points to a change in the pattern of shigellosis, becoming predominantly male and its main mechanism probably by sexual transmission.
Chemical shift subtraction can contribute to routine dynamic contrast subtraction in morphologic analysis particularly for the evaluation of margins of benign lesions in fatty breasts. It can also help in morphologic analysis of masses in dense breast.
Alcohol and drug use are important contributory factors to injury and poisoning deaths. More research is needed into the effects of unemployment and being single on the health of young men, and to investigate the motivations behind risk taking and self-destructive behaviour.
Tests combining total and percent free PSA show modest overall improvements over total PSA. However, utilization of percent free PSA below a PSA threshold of 4 ng/mL could translate into a practically important reduction in unnecessary biopsies without sacrificing cancers detected.
In conclusion, high Ki-67 expression was associated with poor survival in patients with UTUC, as well as a high risk of disease progression, although these findings need to be interpreted with caution. Large-scale, adequately designed, prospective trials are needed to further confirm the value of Ki-67 in prognosis of UTUC patients.
The most disadvantaged families were least likely to have protective health behaviors in place to reduce SHSe and, consequently, are most at-risk for tobacco exposure and subsequent tobacco-related health disparities. Innovative SHSe interventions for this vulnerable population are sorely needed.
This study adds to the growing body of literature documenting the importance of the individual therapist as an important factor in the change process.
The residency training sites of the Northeastern Ohio Universities College of Medicine provide patient care opportunities similar to those found in a national survey of family and general practitioners.
Ultrasound not only has comparable sensitivity to that of X-ray for the identification of limb fractures but is also equally effective for the diagnosis of fracture type and dislocation. Thus, ultrasound can be used as an adequate alternative method to X-ray for pediatric fracture diagnosis.
Over all, our medium-term experience with implantable LVAD support is encouraging. Although additional areas of investigation exist, improvements in patients selection and management together with device alterations that have reduced the thromboembolic incidence and facilitated patient rehabilitation lead us to believe that a prospective, randomized trial is indicated to study the role that LVADs may have as an alternative to medical management.
In a leading specialty journal, cited reviewers gave higher scores than noncited reviewers. However, this was likely due to their being assigned higher-quality manuscripts and not because they were cited in the manuscript. Reviewer requests that their work be cited were rare.
These four cases may belong to a variant form of HAM/TSP, predominantly involving the cervical cord levels.
Serum TB level was independently associated with cardioembolic stroke. The combination of clinical data and serum TB may be a feasible strategy to diagnose cardioembolic stroke in the acute phase.
The Medicaid Demonstration in Florida appears to result in lower PMPM expenditures. Demonstration PSNs generated slightly greater reductions in expenditures compared to Demonstration HMOs. PSNs appear to be a promising model for delivering care to Medicaid enrollees.
While Italian primary care physicians appropriately target eradication therapy for H pylori infection in patients with peptic ulcer disease rather than nonulcer disease, the intervention was still underused in these patients. Improvements in this prescribing behavior are needed.
CLM resection following second-line PCT, after oncosurgically favourable selection, could bring similar OS compared to what observed after first-line. For initially unresectable patients, OS or DFS is comparable between first- and second-line PCT. Surgery should not be denied after the failure of first-line chemotherapy.
NT thickness does not show a significative increase in those women who subsequently develop GDM. Therefore, NT assessment does not prove to be an useful ultrasound parameter for predicting GDM onset during pregnancy.
Family doctors in British Columbia have little awareness of the costs of medical care.
An invasive strategy based on bronchoscopy to diagnose VAP was not associated with a longer time to first appropriate antibiotic administration when clinical suspicion of VAP occurs during off-hours.
: Data from both association and expression studies suggested that variants at HINT1 may be associated with schizophrenia and the associations may be sex-specific. However, the markers showing associations were in high LD to the SPEC2/PDZ-GEF2/ACSL6 locus reported previously in the same samples. This made it difficult to separate the association signals amongst these genes. Other independent studies may be necessary to distinguish these candidate genes.
Clinical axillary examination in breast cancer is subject to false-positive results, and is by itself insufficient justification for axillary lymph node dissection. If other means of preoperative assessment such as palpation- or image-guided fine needle aspiration are negative or indeterminate, then SLN biopsy deserves wider consideration as an alternative to routine axillary lymph node dissection in the clinically node-positive setting.
This study, from the perspective of family caregivers, demonstrates that the CCB is not living up to its full potential in sustaining informal P/EOL caregivers. Effort is required to transform the CCB so that it may fulfill the potential it holds for serving as one public health response to caregiver burden that forms part of a healthy public policy that addresses the determinants of this burden.
Patients who normalized their CA19-9 levels postoperatively had equivalent survival to patients with normal preoperative CA 19-9 levels. Preoperative serum CA 19-9 level by itself should not preclude surgery in patients who have undergone careful preoperative staging.
The relationship between cognitive functioning and recognition of frequency compressed speech-in-noise was not statistically significant. The findings may have been different if the participants had been provided with training and/or time to 'acclimatize' to the frequency-compressed conditions.
There is little evidence that the 2008 public antibiotic campaigns were effective. The use and visibility of future campaign materials needs auditing. A carefully planned approach that targets the public in GP waiting rooms and through clinicians in consultations may be a more effective way of improving prudent antibiotic use.
Random survival forests did not yield higher performance compared to Cox proportional hazards. We found improvement in prediction performance when coupling the genetic SNP score with clinical/demographic markers, which warrants further investigation.
In this in vitro cadaver study, the tricompartmental replacement significantly changed knee kinematics while the unicompartmental replacement preserved normal knee kinematics.
Obesity does not seem to impact the severity of injury, mortality rate, types of injury, and procedure outcomes in children. Obese patients are more likely to have rib and pelvic injuries.
Post-operative version or percentage of DFV>15° did not significantly differ following IMN of diaphyseal femur fractures between surgeons with and without trauma fellowship training. However, prospective data that removes the inherent bias that the more complex cases are left for the traumatologists are required before a definitive comparison is made.
Based on the predictive information available in a liver biopsy, we conclude that those patients who will not benefit from a Kasai procedure can be identified preoperatively, and channeled immediately to transplantation.
While music did not significantly reduce cortisol, less profound spikes in UFC levels were observed but that, given the limitations of the research, this observation could have occurred merely by chance.
CMV-IgM and IgG antibodies assessment was not a potential discriminative test to identify congenitally infected newborns. In addition, low birth weight and small head circumference at birth failed to predict congenital CMV infection. CMV-DNA detection in umbilical cord blood at the time of delivery using real-time PCR of all newborns is recommended as decisive, rapid and non-invasive test.
Leaving out the period of intake of meals and beverages from the raw pH data might be the second best test after the time-consuming visual correction with a small chance of undetected gastropharyngeal reflux. For scientific purposes and when in doubt, it remains necessary to review the computer-generated data manually to discover every gastropharyngeal reflux event.
Despite recent efforts, a large proportion of newly confirmed TB patients could not adhere to standard TB treatment, and patients' lost to follow-up was still a serious problem. Poor treatment supervision and heavy financial burden might be the main causes for non-adherence. More needs to be done to enhance treatment supervision policies and financial supports to both health providers and TB patients.
Our data suggested that visually impaired pedestrians can make accurate and reliable street crossing decisions like those of normally sighted pedestrians. When using auditory information only, all subjects significantly overestimated the vehicular gap time. Our finding that blind pedestrians performed significantly worse than either the normally sighted or visually impaired subjects under the hearing only condition suggested that they may benefit from training to improve their detection ability and/or interpretation of vehicular gap times.
Bone turnover markers were significantly but modestly associated with bone turnover parameters measured in iliac cancellous bone. The iliac crest bone may not represent perfectly the whole bone turnover.
Our findings suggest that somatic complaints may represent one, but not necessarily the most important, risk factor for the subsequent development of depressive symptoms in women in nonclinical populations. The results also highlight the importance of including social variables in studies on women's depression as well as conducting additional research to further examine predictors of depressive symptoms in men.
Education by pharmacists, combined with access to counter samples, may or may not have an effect on medical provider prescribing, depending on the category of medication targeted for cost control.
Our data suggest that working exposure increases the risk or leads to the clinical manifestation of rotator cuff tears. Although a detailed analysis of individual physical exposure is not available yet, the statistical results indicate that rotator cuff tears must be taken into consideration as a result of ergonomic exposure.
These findings indicate that a relationship between multiple sclerosis and streptococcal infections may exist, but to acquire a better understanding of the role of group A streptococci in the pathogenesis of multiple sclerosis, more studies with animal models are necessary.
The results indicate that difficulties removing irrelevant material from working memory might be unique to depression, and the ability to inhibit irrelevant information is relatively preserved in social anxiety disorder.
This Google-based search was useful to identify an appropriate diagnosis in complex immunological and allergic cases. Computing skills may help to get better results.
It can be concluded that CLBP patients in general have worse motor task performance compared to healthy subjects and that provoking pain-related cognitions further worsened performance.
Minimising the radiation dose to one of the parotid glands with the help of IMRT in patients with advanced head and neck cancers can prevent xerostomia in most patients and parotid scintigraphy is a useful method of documenting xerostomia.
The gluten-free diet has minimal deficiencies, similar to those present in the diet with gluten, with an improvement in the lipid profile by increasing the proportion of monounsaturated fatty acids to the detriment of saturated fatty acids.
Dutch primary schools could play a more important role in fostering healthy eating habits among children. The school food policy could be improved by clearly formulating food rules, simplifying supervision of the food rules, and defining how to enforce the food rules. In addition, the school food policy will only influence children's dietary behaviour if both the school and the parents support the policy.
The study suggests that ventilating an adult patient is possible with a smaller, pediatric-sized BVM. The tidal volumes recorded with the pediatric BVM were more consistent with lung-protective ventilation volumes.
Significant differences in costs, outcomes, and patient factors exist for inpatient tonsillectomy based on hospital type. Although reasons for these differences are not discernable using isolated claims data, findings provide a foundation to further evaluate patient, institutional, and system-level factors that may reduce cost of care and improve value for inpatient tonsillectomy.
Results suggest that female college students with ADHD are at risk for unprotected sex. Moreover, a positive mother-child relationship may be protective for college students with ADHD in relation to RSB.
Significant associations were observed between RHR and several established cardiovascular risk factors. Prospective studies are needed in sub-Saharan African populations to establish the potential value of RHR in cardiovascular risk assessment.
The whole-body MRI protocol for the detection of bone metastases could safely be limited to the T1w sequence in adults, especially at 3 T. There is no need for an additional STIR sequence. These initial results will have a major impact on the department's workflow if confirmed by larger studies as they will help reduce examination time and therefore save financial resources.
Due to a relatively good reproducibility, fast and easy application, we found the linear dimension method to be the most pragmatic approach for evaluation of growth of carotid and vagal body paragangliomas. For jugulotympanic tumours, the preferred method is manual area tracing. However, volumetric changes of these tumours may be of less clinical importance than changes in relation to surrounding anatomical structures.
An increased risk of serious infections associated with infliximab relative to etanercept did not appear to be modified by patients' sex, race/ethnicity, body mass index, or smoking status. There was an indication that the increased risk might be limited to patients<65 years. Additional studies are warranted to verify or refute this finding.
Long-term dietary compliance in screen-detected patients was good. Quality of life and bone mineral density were comparable with those in non-coeliac subjects and the general population. Active screening in coeliac disease risk groups seems to be reasonable rather than harmful.
Although there are different patterns of atrophy across the different FTLD-TDP types, it appears that genetic and pathologic factors may also affect the patterns of atrophy.
Clear and distinct differences between the two studied groups were found indicating the root of this increased confidence may have developed due to exposure to the Pathway program.
The results obtained in this study demonstrate that LUS is an accurate and highly sensitive procedure in staging colorectal cancer, providing a useful and reliable diagnostic tool complementary to laparoscopy.
Our data shows that the Ki-67 value predicts the response to neoadjuvant chemotherapy as a function of the molecular subtype, reflecting the daily routine concerning Ki-67 and its impressing potential and limitation as a predictive marker for neoadjuvant chemotherapy response.
The incidence of post-tonsillectomy late haemorrhage in our study population was 1.78%. A statistically significant difference was found between night-time and day-time haemorrhages. Even though no significant distribution of haemorrhages per hour was observed, we underline that we recorded 32 (54.2%) events in 2 periods of the day: from 10 p.m. to 1 a.m. and from 6 to 9 a.m.
This data demonstrates the robust nature of the short stay ward. At these two very different institutions we have shown improved bed efficient and patient care in a cost-effective way. We have also reported on greater parental satisfaction and early return of the child with their family to the community.
These cases illustrate that tumours involving eyelids and parotid glands can present simultaneously or sequentially, and either of these structures could be the focus of primary or metastatic tumour. The important message for oculoplastic and parotid surgeons is to routinely assess both the periocular and parotid area when patients present with a mass in either structure.
Transsphenoidal pituitary surgery is a safe method of treatment in patients with Cushing's disease. Operative findings, radiological and histological findings, together with early postoperative serum cortisol and urine free cortisol estimates may identify failures in treatment. Alternative treatment might then be required for these patients. Because of the risk of late relapse, patients require life-long follow-up.
Our results indicate that there is no elevation of cTn despite the occurrence of significant WMAs on DSE. We conclude that cTnI cannot be used as an additional diagnostic tool during pharmacological stress test performed to evaluate the presence and severity of ischemia.
This study demonstrated that the regional or global apex of a given curve is the most rotated level in only a minority of the curves. The most rotated level may be as far as two levels from the global apex and one level from the regional apex.
Sonography has no place in the diagnosis of undescended testis.
The frequency and topographic distribution of LNM are not modified by NACT, and clinical non-responders showed more involved LNs. A systemic and extensive lymphadenectomy should be performed in patients treated with NACT plus surgery regardless of the response to NACT.
In a prospective evaluation, cold knife cone specimens were 50% longer and 100% heavier than LEEP specimens.
We concluded that depiction of the superior wall of the mandibular canal cannot be improved by changing the thickness of images.
The preconditioning effect (infarct size reduction) appears not to depend on intermittent reperfusion. Thus, the protective mechanism of IP develops during the initial ischemia that precedes the index ischemia. Alternatively, low-flow ischemia is effectively a sort of reperfusion.
In this small retrospective study, updated Pap test screening guidelines would not have missed invasive cancer on average among screened women age 30 and older. However, young patients aged 21-29 years may be at increased risk of developing IAC of the cervix between the recommended screening intervals.
No change occurred upon instituting simple, at-the-visit family history prompts geared to improve PCPs' ability to identify patients at high risk for 6 common conditions. The results are both surprising and disappointing. Further studies should examine physicians' perception of the utility of prompts for family history risk.
GP ablation did not prove to be beneficial for postoperative stable NSR. A complete left atrial lesion set and biatrial ablation are advisable for improving rhythm outcomes. Randomized controlled trials are necessary to confirm our findings.
In view of the results, it is concluded that there is no awareness of PE among the doctors in the reformed PC in our area. This poses a question over the efficacy of feed-back of pharmacy information in order to create this awareness. This information needs to be more frequent and richer in content, and to be complemented by other measures.
The study suggests that there is no difference in clinical toxicity profiles or survival outcomes with either definitive chemoradiotherapy or chemoradiation followed by surgery in management of locally advanced esophageal cancer.
The study results suggested that spinal cord untethering may be unnecessary in patients with MM who are undergoing scoliosis corrective surgery and do not present with clinical symptoms of a tethered cord, even though tethering is radiographically demonstrated.
Current K/DOQI guidelines are inadequate for correcting VDDI or secondary hyperparathyroidism in CKD patients. Future studies should examine the effects of higher or more frequent dosing of ergocalciferol on these clinical endpoints.
Laparoscopic antireflux surgery is a safe and effective treatment for GERD even in elderly patients, warranting low morbidity and mortality rates and a significant improvement of symptoms comparable to younger patients.
In patients with clinically localized PC, CRP does not appear to possess the predictive value and it was shown to have patients with other tumor entities or advanced PC.
The proportion of thin 0-1 mm melanomas presenting in South West England has significantly increased from 2003 to 2012. There is no significant change in the thick>4 mm melanomas. This may be a result of increased public awareness due to effective public health campaigns which has significant prognostic and financial implications.
This case illustrates the importance of considering PAN in the differential diagnosis of renal infarction with inflammatory syndrome and shows that spontaneous remission of renal PAN can occur. .
Cytoplasmic overexpression of β-catenin was observed in the majority of the cases of SbCC of eyelid, and this correlated significantly with tumour size. The authors therefore hypothesise that β-catenin overexpression in SbCC of eyelid may be a result of Wnt/β-catenin pathway dysregulation. However, its role both in the development of sebaceous cell carcinoma of the eyelid as well as its prognosis needs to be explored further.
The use of contaminated products with antibiotic prophylaxis may be safe in terms of the first day of fever, duration of fever, neutrophil, platelet engraftment and duration of hospitalization.
Lysosomotropic amines in combination with cyclosporine appear to be synergistic in the suppression of T-cell proliferation to MiHC and MHC. Use of chloroquine in combination with cyclosporine may result in improved control of GVHD.
This longitudinal study found no significant effect of menopausal transition on quality of life among Taiwanese women. The decline in the role limitations due to emotional problems was related to vasomotor symptoms.
The homogeneity we found in the deprivation-mortality relationship across the regions of Scotland and the absence of a contextualized effect of region highlights the importance of taking a broader strategic policy that can combat the toxic impacts of socio-economic deprivation on health. Focusing on a few specific places (e.g. 15% of the poorest areas) to concentrate resources might be a good start but the impact of socio-economic deprivation on mortality is not restricted to a few places. A comprehensive strategy that can be sustained over time might be needed to interrupt the linkages between poverty and mortality.
In our study the U-Blade (RC) lag screw did not reduce the cut-out in treatment of OTA/AO 31A1-3 fractures at all. Considering the longer duration of surgery and the higher costs of the U-Blade (RC) lag screw, our results do not justify its use. However, further prospective randomized studies will be necessary.
The high rate of unsuccessful IUD insertions reported here, particularly for nulliparous women, suggests that the true insertion failure rate of providers who are not employing additional tools for difficult insertions may be much higher than reported in clinical trials. Further investigation is necessary to determine if this is a common problem and, if so, to assess if the use of adjuvant measures will reduce the number of unsuccessful IUD insertions.
There were significant differences in tumor characteristics by tumor location within and between both national cohorts. On the basis of these findings, further study to investigate the biological difference between the two countries is needed.